How it works:
 
Enemies spawn at the violet swirl.If an enemy reach
the end of the road,you loose one health.If your 
health reaches zero, you die. You must build towers 
that attack the enemies to prevent them from reaching
the end of the road. Towers can only be built on 
foundations. You can also use various spells. 
 
There are several types of towers, enemies and spells.
You can gain information about them by hovering the 
mouse over the "build tower buttons", the 
"cast spell buttons" or the different enemies in the 
"next wave window". The "next wave window" also 
displays what kind of, and how many enemies will
apear during the next wave.

To place a tower or cast a spell, click on the button
of the type of tower/spell you wish to build/cast.
Right click to cancel whatever you are doing. 
Building towers consume gold, while casting spells
consume mana. Gold is gained by slaying enemies, mana
regenerates automatically. While casting a spell or 
building a tower, you can cancel by riht clicking 
anywhere. When you build a tower, towers of that type 
become more expensive, so don't just build one kind
of tower.
 
You can select towers by clicking on them. When you 
have a tower selected, you will see information on
that particular tower, and you can click on the
arrow-button, or recycle-button to upgrade or sell 
the selected tower. 

General advice:
 
Stonetowers and poisontowers are more effective early
game, while firetowers are very powerfull if upgraded.
the frosttower is for supporting other towers. 
Stonetowes are the best for slaying enemies with armor.
Remember to use your spells, they are important in 
getting a high rating. Place your towers so they cover 
as much of the road as possible, placement is the 
difference between death and five stars!
 
Good luck!

tl:dr
 
Stonetowers and poisontowers are the best early game.
 
Enemies don't just look different from each other.
 
Mouse over "things" in the right window to get info.
 
Some enemies have more health.
 
Click towers for info, arrow to upgrade, recycle to sell.
 
Right click to cancel spells or towers.
 
You can build/cast while the game is paused.